my name is Mike cake I'm from Vancouver
BC and I went to the University my name
is Megan Campbell I'm from my name is
Owen Scott I'm from Ottawa hi my name is
Mike Lawson and the co-president of the
UFT chapter of Engineers Without Borders
in Malawi ewp is contributing to the
creation of long-term access to clean
water
although Malawi has many water points as
many as 35 percent of them are broken to
improve access to clean water our
volunteers have developed a tool to
capture rope broken water points are
located
now that we're able to identify where
broken wells are located we are working
to find innovative ways to increase
their functionality this means investing
in leaders at the district government to
help them more effectively respond with
long-term maintenance strategies I spent
some time in villages try to understand
the complexities of village hierarchy
the different gender roles played and
trying to really identify where the
natural leaders in the community at a
village level I believe good people and
their ideas and I think that the change
in one person's mindset and actions and
a ripple effect on the rest of society I
think the work that Uwe is doing in
Malawi on water point functionality is
really exciting instead of taking the
traditional NGO approach in making more
water supply we are taking a step back
and actually looking at the monitoring
and evaluation side of things I move
back to what is there Uwe has actually
helped us the negative stuff but I've
complemented we have actually the the
four farms trying to do that what's that
already kind of you
the whole aspect of learning drawing key
lessons out of what we're doing has been
to me you can create a world of
opportunity by supporting our work to
provide water access in rural Malawi
