[Music]
least developed countries or LDCs are
low-income countries which are highly
vulnerable to economic and environmental
shocks and have low levels of human
assets the UN Committee for development
policy or CDP reviews the list of LDCs
every three years and makes
recommendations on the inclusion and
graduation of eligible countries the
committee uses three criteria human
assets economic vulnerability and income
per capita 47 countries currently
qualify the human assets index comprises
five indicators school enrolment
undernourishment maternal mortality
adult literacy and under five mortality
the economic vulnerability criterion has
eight indicators population remoteness
export concentration victims of natural
disasters chair of agriculture and
fishing ins GDP share of population in
low coastal zones instability of exports
and instability of agricultural
production the latest income per capita
threshold for graduation from the LDC
list was 1242 dollars a country must
meet two of these three criteria at two
consecutive three-year lien reviews of
the CDP in order to be considered for
graduation alternatively an LDC may
exceed twice the income per capita
threshold for two consecutive reviews
the latest level was two thousand four
hundred and eighty four dollars five
countries have so far graduated from the
category Botswana Cape Verde Equatorial
Guinea the Maldives and Samoa Angola and
Vanuatu were also scheduled to leave in
2020 and 2021 the LDC category was
created to give less developed countries
exclusive access to certain
international support measures in
particular on aid and trade for instance
all ldcs have duty and quota free
to European and US markets as well as
other countries under dedicated trading
arrangement set up to help LDCs world
trade organization members grant special
and differential treatment to LDCs
official donors have committed to
allocating 0.15 2.2 percent of their aid
to LDCs there are lots of other
international support measures for LDCs
including climate change financing
reduced contributions to the UN and WTO
budgets and help with travel to
international meetings
you
